docs/bytecode.md, before:

# micro-wibble bytecode format

## goals

- everything is a machine word (i32 or i64)
    - value (int)
    - reference to heap (pointer)
    - index into constant pool (need to be clearly different from a pointer) (maybe always set bit 0?)
- heap objects are just arrays of words ("slots")
    - or byte-accessed, through an extension (strings, byte arrays)
    - objects may have up to 64 slots
- no runtime type-checking, only sandbox-style bounds checking (bad code can crash, but can't corrupt the runtime)
- globals & locals (each are just numbered slots)
- constant pool is a set of byte-arrays, indexed from 0
    - can include "frozen objects" (array of slots)
    - a "class" (type) can itself be a frozen object (compiler would do this, not the runtime)
- code is loaded from the constant pool
    - fixed # of locals (specified in code object)
    - fixed max stack size for operations (also specified in code object)
- calling convention is:
    - compiler must enforce agreement between expected & actual # of args (use a temp object for varargs)
    - callee places N args on stack
    - "call (const pool #) N"
    - callee receives args as first N locals
    - "return N"
    - caller has N results pushed to its stack

## file format

- all ints are encoded as either varint (unsigned) or zigzag (signed)
- format:
    - u32: magic = F0 9F 97 BF
    - u8: version = 0
    - u8: global count
    - uint: index of "main" function in constant pool
    - u8[...]: constant pool
- code object:
    - u8: local count
    - u8: max stack size
    - u8[...]: bytecode
- each instruction is one byte, followed by optional (varint or zigzag) parameters
- to get short-circuit or/and, use nested if
- address of a constant is stored as `(c << 1) | 1`

## bytecodes

- stack vars are S1, S2... (left to right); immediates are N1, N2...
- 0 immediates (9)
    - * load slot #S2 from S1 -> S1 `LD [*]`
    - * store S3 into slot #S2 of S1 `ST [*]`
    - * if: execute next only if S1 is true `IF`
    - * new obj: S1 slots, filling the first S2 from stack -> S1 `NEW`
    - * call function S2 with S1 args `CALL`
    - * length (in slots) of S1 -> S1 `SIZE`
    - * return with S1 values `RET`
    - * do nothing `NOP`
    - * break into debugger `BREAK`
- 1 immediate (13)
    - * load immediate N1 -> S1 `LD #n`
    - * load address of const #N1 (as obj) -> S1 `LD %n` --- *maybe not necessary?*
    - * load local #N1 -> S1 `LD @n`
    - * load global #N1 -> S1 `LD $n`
    - * load slot #N1 from S1 -> S1 `LD [#n]`
    - * store S1 into local #N1 `ST @n`
    - * store S1 into global #N1 `ST $n`
    - * store S2 into slot #N1 of S1 `ST [#n]`
    - * unary op #N1 on S1
    - * binary op #N1 on S1, S2
    - * call function S1 with N1 args `CALL #n`
    - * return with N1 values `RET #n`
    - * jump to absolute byte #N1 `JUMP #n`
- 2 immediates (2)
    - * new obj: N1 slots, filling the first N2 from stack -> S1 `NEW #n, #n`
    - call native module #N1, function #N2 `SYS #n, #n`

## unary operations

- 0: not `NOT`
- 1: negative `NEG`
- 2: bit-not `INV`

## binary operations

- 0: + `ADD`
- 1: - `SUB`
- 2: * `MUL`
- 3: / `DIV`
- 4: % `MOD`
- 5: = `EQ`
- 6: < `LT`
- 7: <= `LE`
- 8: bit-or `OR`
- 9: bit-and `AND`
- a: bit-xor `XOR`
- b: shift-left `LSL`
- c: shift-right `LSR`
- d: sign shift-right `ASR`

## potential native modules

- byte arrays (length + data)
    - new (size, fill byte)
    - length
    - compare
    - ~concat~ (new, copy, copy)
    - index of
    - last index of
    - ~slice~ (new, copy)
    - b[x] get
    - b[x] set
    - copy b[i..j] into c[k]
    - fill b[i..j] with x
- strings (byte arrays in utf8)
- extended slot arrays
- infinite ints

## extended arrays/strings

- since an object can only have 64 slots
    - call it 256 bytes for a string, which perfectly allows for a 1-byte length prefix, pascal-style
- use indirection: an extended array has a size, capacity, and refs to spans of 64 slots (6 + 8 = 16KB strings or 6 + 6 = array of 4096 items)



// macro_rules! fail {
// -            ($code: expr) => {
// -                return Err(frame.to_error($code));
// -            };
// -        }


## to-do

- GC when out of memory
- call native function

Commit message:

check this in while it works: switch to using on offset into the constant pool instead of trying to format them as objects. code objects now need to have their length embedded, and everything needs to be aligned, but i think this simplifies a lot of stuff.

docs/bytecode.md, after:

# micro-wibble bytecode format

## goals

- everything is a machine word (i32 or i64)
    - value (int)
    - reference to heap (pointer)
    - index into constant pool (need to be clearly different from a pointer) (maybe always set bit 0?)
- heap objects are just arrays of words ("slots")
    - or byte-accessed, through an extension (strings, byte arrays)
    - objects may have up to 64 slots
- no runtime type-checking, only sandbox-style bounds checking (bad code can crash, but can't corrupt the runtime)
- globals & locals (each are just numbered slots)
- constant pool is a set of byte-arrays, indexed from 0
    - can include "frozen objects" (array of slots)
    - a "class" (type) can itself be a frozen object (compiler would do this, not the runtime)
- code is loaded from the constant pool
    - fixed # of locals (specified in code object)
    - fixed max stack size for operations (also specified in code object)
- calling convention is:
    - compiler must enforce agreement between expected & actual # of args (use a temp object for varargs)
    - callee places N args on stack
    - "call (const pool #) N"
    - callee receives args as first N locals
    - "return N"
    - caller has N results pushed to its stack

## file format

- all ints are encoded as either varint (unsigned) or zigzag (signed)
- format:
    - u32: magic = F0 9F 97 BF
    - u8: version = 0
    - u8: global count
    - uint: index of "main" function in constant pool
    - u8[...]: constant pool
- code object:
    - u8: local count
    - u8: max stack size
    - u16: length of bytecode
    - u8[...]: bytecode
- each instruction is one byte, followed by optional (varint or zigzag) parameters
- to get short-circuit or/and, use nested if
- address of a constant is stored as `(c << 1) | 1`

## constant pool

- stored in rom (flash)
- just a big blob of memory with an extent
- opcode for turning a byte offset into a real pointer (24 -> constant_pool_base + 24)
    - to save space, make all constant offsets & code offsets aligned, and stored as divide-by-4
- bounds checking on read/write
    - writes must be within heap
    - reads must be within heap or constant pool
    - both must be 32 (or 64) bit aligned

## bytecodes

- stack vars are S1, S2... (left to right); immediates are N1, N2...
- 0 immediates (9)
    - * load slot #S2 from S1 -> S1 `LD [*]`
    - * store S3 into slot #S2 of S1 `ST [*]`
    - * if: execute next only if S1 is true `IF`
    - * new obj: S1 slots, filling the first S2 from stack -> S1 `NEW`
    - * call function S2 with S1 args `CALL`
    - * length (in slots) of S1 -> S1 `SIZE`
    - * return with S1 values `RET`
    - * do nothing `NOP`
    - * break into debugger `BREAK`
- 1 immediate (13)
    - * load immediate N1 -> S1 `LD #n`
    - * load address of const at offset #N1 -> S1 `LD %n`
    - * load local #N1 -> S1 `LD @n`
    - * load global #N1 -> S1 `LD $n`
    - * load slot #N1 from S1 -> S1 `LD [#n]`
    - * store S1 into local #N1 `ST @n`
    - * store S1 into global #N1 `ST $n`
    - * store S2 into slot #N1 of S1 `ST [#n]`
    - * unary op #N1 on S1
    - * binary op #N1 on S1, S2
    - * call function S1 with N1 args `CALL #n`
    - * return with N1 values `RET #n`
    - * jump to absolute byte #N1 `JUMP #n`
- 2 immediates (2)
    - * new obj: N1 slots, filling the first N2 from stack -> S1 `NEW #n, #n`
    - call native module #N1, function #N2 `SYS #n, #n`

## unary operations

- 0: not `NOT`
- 1: negative `NEG`
- 2: bit-not `INV`

## binary operations

- 0: + `ADD`
- 1: - `SUB`
- 2: * `MUL`
- 3: / `DIV`
- 4: % `MOD`
- 5: = `EQ`
- 6: < `LT`
- 7: <= `LE`
- 8: bit-or `OR`
- 9: bit-and `AND`
- a: bit-xor `XOR`
- b: shift-left `LSL`
- c: shift-right `LSR`
- d: sign shift-right `ASR`

## potential native modules

- byte arrays (length + data)
    - new (size, fill byte)
    - length
    - compare
    - ~concat~ (new, copy, copy)
    - index of
    - last index of
    - ~slice~ (new, copy)
    - b[x] get
    - b[x] set
    - copy b[i..j] into c[k]
    - fill b[i..j] with x
- strings (byte arrays in utf8)
- extended slot arrays
- infinite ints

## extended arrays/strings

- since an object can only have 64 slots
    - call it 256 bytes for a string, which perfectly allows for a 1-byte length prefix, pascal-style
- use indirection: an extended array has a size, capacity, and refs to spans of 64 slots (6 + 8 = 16KB strings or 6 + 6 = array of 4096 items)



// macro_rules! fail {
// -            ($code: expr) => {
// -                return Err(frame.to_error($code));
// -            };
// -        }


## to-do

- GC when out of memory
- call native function
